Update Factory PKI docs according to recent changes (#699)
foundriesio/docs: source/reference-manual/security/device-gateway.rst

Managing Factory PKI
====================

LmP devices connect to OTA services via a :ref:`Device Gateway <ref-ota-architecture>` configured with mutual TLS.
A Factory Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) is a set of Digital Certificates used to establish trust between Factory devices and Device Gateway.

When a new Factory is created, it is configured to use the default "shared" PKI with Certificates owned by Foundries.io™.
This allows a newcomer to faster engage with the FoundriesFactory®, allowing to streamline your product development.

> 

Author: I shuffled sentences/words in a different way, and removed some junk words. Does it look better now?

> We allow you to set up your own PKI for your Factory — and **encourage** doing that before going to production.

Reviewer: I remember we talked about "recommendations" on the RM, but I don't know exactly which set of words to use. I will ask @kprosise to comment on the details.

I think this sentence is too loose. I would not say "we allow", and "encourage" is vague. I would say something on the lines:

It is recommended to set up and test a new Factory PKI before going to production.

> We allow you to set up your own PKI for your Factory — and **encourage** doing that before going to production.

Reviewer 2: Maybe *highly* recommended.

@vkhoroz @doanac I actually think we can forbid connection to DG if a factory-specific PKI is not setup in the production case.

> We allow you to set up your own PKI for your Factory — and **encourage** doing that before going to production.

Reviewer 2: These term, `your own Factory PKI` or `a new Factory PKI` maybe just a Factory PKI, or a Factory specific PKI.

> We allow you to set up your own PKI for your Factory — and **encourage** doing that before going to production.

Author: I actually preserved the original text here... did not want to insult its author as I found it good enough.
As per your recommendation I will truncate amount of imperative buzzwords here to just "recommend".

But I object to using any level-up adjectives: **_recommendation_** is a very clear term in ABNF/RFC world, it cannot be higher or lower.
We should use a different word for a higher degree of insistance like **_should_** or **_must_**; but neither of these words is appropriate here.

Benefits of owning your Factory PKI are two-fold:

> - Controlling who (which devices) can connect to your Factory device gateway to fetch configuration and software updates.
> - Controlling who (which servers) can deliver configuration and software updates to your Factory devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Controlling which devices can connect to your Factory Device Gateway to fetch configuration and software updates.
- Controlling which servers can deliver configuration and software updates to your Factory devices.
```

Reviewer 2: How "owning your Factory PKI" allows "Controlling who (which servers) can deliver configuration and software updates"? It is the same server/service across all factories - Device Gateway.

Author: It is not necessarily the Foundries.io device gateway - the user is free to set up their own server.
A device gateway here serves only as a medium.

After taking ownership of the Factory PKI a customer is the only entity who can issue the device gateway TLS certificate, and they are free to put any domain into it.
In that way they have full control who delivers updates to their devices.

Before they take ownership of the Factory PKI, it is the Foundries.io who possesses that privilege.

.. warning::
   The Factory :ref:`Root of Trust <Root-of-Trust>` **can only be set once**; subsequent attempts will fail.
   Other Factory PKI certificates can be updated at any time; having that you own your Factory Root of Trust.

>    `Contact customer support <https://support.foundries.io>` if you need your Factory PKI being reset.

Reviewer: ok, so reset Factory PKI and set up your own Factory PKI are two different things. But both rotate the keys, right? This is only a matter of who is performing the rotation. Maybe a link in the "encourage" sentence (line 12) is missing.

Author: Resetting Factory PKI does not rotate the certificates.
It is like a factory reset - return back to using the shared PKI.

At that point all existing devices will no longer be update to fetch updates, until manual intervention.
We work on rotating the Root of Trust as a separate feature, which is (tentatively) going to be ready in Q4 this year.

   Once a reset was performed, all connected devices will lose their connection.

>    These devices will not be able to connect to the device gateway until they are re-provisioned with a new Root of Trust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   These devices will not be able to connect to the Device Gateway until they are re-provisioned with a new Root of Trust.
```

I don't know if all "Device Gateway" occurrences must be capitalized.... please ignore if I'm suggesting wrong

Author: I have no opinion on this.
It was lowercase in original text, so I left it that way.
I'm fine to capitalize globally.

LmP devices connect to OTA services via a :ref:`Device Gateway <ref-ota-architecture>` configured with mutual TLS.
A set of Digital Certificates used to establish trust between Factory devices and Device Gateway is a Factory Public Key Infrastructure (PKI).

When a new Factory is created, it is configured to use the default shared PKI with Certificates owned by Foundries.io™.
This provides a faster engagement with the FoundriesFactory®, allowing streamlined product development.

FoundriesFactory supports setting up your own Factory PKI via either :ref:`Fioctl® <ref-fioctl>` commands or the API integration.
We recommend setting up your own Factory PKI **before** going to production.
Benefits of owning your Factory PKI are two-fold:

- Controlling which devices can connect to your Factory Device Gateway to fetch configuration and software updates.
- Controlling which servers can deliver configuration and software updates to your Factory devices.

.. warning::
   The Factory :ref:`Root of Trust <Root-of-Trust>` **can only be set once**; subsequent attempts will fail.
   Other Factory PKI certificates can be updated at any time; having that you own your Factory Root of Trust.

>    `Contact customer support <https://support.foundries.io>` if you need your Factory PKI being reset.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   `Contact customer support <https://support.foundries.io>`_ if you need your Factory PKI being reset.
```

Root of Trust: ``factory_ca.key / factory_ca.pem`` 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An X.509 certificate used as a Root Certificate Authority (RCA) for your Factory.

> You own the private key (NIST P-256 by default), and share the corresponding certificate with Foundries.io.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You own the private key (NIST P-256 by default), and share the corresponding public certificate with Foundries.io.
```

Author: Nixed.

A key can be public or private. A certificate is just a... certificate, bearing a public key. So it is presumed to be public.

All intermediate Certificate Authorities (CAs) and TLS certificates configured in your Factory must be signed by its Root of Trust.

> This CA is preloaded to factory devices, so that they can use it to verify the FoundriesFactory web APIs TLS certificates.

Reviewer 2: `This CA` looks a bit vague after the sentence with `intermediate Certificate Authorities (CAs)`. I would be more specific and say that Root of Trust is preloaded on a device.

Author: Fixed.

.. warning::

>     Never lose your Factory Root of Trust, as Foundries.io does not own its copy and is not able to recover it.

Reviewer 4: This isn't quite right, but maybe something more like this:

```suggestion
    Never lose your Factory Root of Trust's private key. By design, Foundries.io only has a copy of the public certificate
```

Author: Fixed.

    We recommend storing your Factory Root of Trust in a cloud-based HSM solution, like e.g. `AWS Cloud HSM <https://aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/>`_.

>     That way you get an increased safety of your highly important secret through their redundancy and backup policies.

Reviewer 4: do we? and if so, were do we document *how* to do it.

Author: Some of our customers do store their Factory root private keys in the Cloud HSM.
I don't know if they used the `--hsm-xxx` options of Fioctl for that or not.
I'd like to get feedback from customer support on that.

As for documenting the HOW part, there are two options:
1. Do nothing.
    The user may generate a private key _without_ `--hsm-xxx` options, and then copy it into the HSM.
    It is up to the HSM provider to document how to do that.
2. Document `--hsm-xxx` options in a separate section here.
    Before doing that, I'd like to first verify our integration with e.g. AWS Cloud HSM, and write a blog post about that.

Currently, I have no capacity to do 2, so I decided that 1 is better than nothing.

I do not feel confident with _only_ intructing our users to _print private key and store in multiple safes_.
The thing is: almost nobody does that, and when they lose the key - they come to blame on us.

A simple sentence to say they need to store a key in a cloud HSM will motivate them to do the research and offload this pain onto a billionaire business.

Reviewer 4: We can't recommend something and not provide documentation for something this complicated. It will lead to a support ticket for each new customer.

Author: For now, I think it should be enough to refer to this page: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/latest/userguide/key_mgmt_util-importPrivateKey.html.

I did not mean to document a complete HSM support in this iteration.
But, I want to recommend _at least_ importing the private key copy into the HSM.

Reviewer 4: maybe. You should consult with support. The problem I see with statement around this are people then asking:
* Why AWS instead of $X
* How much does it cost?
* <insert random question for something we can't predict since we haven't even tried ourselves>

Author: I tried to use vendor neutral sentence, but I think it might be improved like e.g. below:

```
We recommend storing your Factory Root of Trust in a cloud-based HSM solution of your choice.
For example, the `AWS Cloud HSM <link to landing page here>`_ supports `importing private keys <link to manual here>`_, and we verified that to work with the Factory PKI private keys.
```

Obviously, I need to verify that it really works, before making that bold statement.

Reviewer 4: I can live with that.

Reviewer 2: Looks like `AWS Cloud HSM` advertisement.

Author: Rephrased accoring to my suggestion.

>     Additionally, we recommend printing the private key of your Root of Trust on paper and storing it in a safe.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Additionally, we recommend printing the private key of your Root of Trust on paper and storing it in multiple fire and waterproof safes.
```

Author: Fixed

.. _tls-crt:

Server TLS Certificate: ``tls-crt``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An X.509 certificate used by :ref:`Device Gateway <ref-ota-architecture>` during a mutual TLS handshake and session setup.
Foundries.io owns the private key (NIST P-256 by default), and you sign the certificate by the Factory Root of Trust.

When your Factory devices connect to the Device Gateway, they verify the server identity by validating its TLS Certificate.
They use the preloaded Factory Root of Trust to perform that validation.

> Once the mutual trust is established, Device Gateway uses its TLS Certificate to setup a session symmetric key.

Author: It is the only one.
A client certificate is involved at a later time during the TLS handshake to for the client authorization _after_ the session was already set up.

That temporary symmetric key is used to encrypt all session traffic between the Device Gateway and the device.

Device Client Certificate
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> An X.509 certificate issued to your Factory device at a registration process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An X.509 certificate was issued to your Factory device during the registration process.
```

for me, a verb is missing, please double check

Reviewer 3: @angolini you are correct

Author: Fixed

The device owns the private key (NIST P-256 by default) and the certificate.

This certificate must be signed by either a :ref:`Local Device CA <local-ca>` or an :ref:`Online Device CA <online-ca>` (see below).

> In particular, the :ref:`lmp-device-register` generates the Device Client Certificate at registration time.

Reviewer 2: It sounds like an incomplete story after `This certificate must be signed by either a :ref:`Local Device CA <local-ca>` or an :ref:`Online Device CA <online-ca>`. The `lmp-dev-reg` does not generate the cert, it just generates CSR... Probably adding more details and so it includes "signed by/with".

Author: Fixed.

Not sure how much the new version is better... at least it pretends to tell a full story.

When connecting to the :ref:`Device Gateway <ref-ota-architecture>`, a device must present its Client Certificate during a TLS handshake.
The device identity is verified at the Device Gateway, and the device is either allowed or denied to connect based on its certificate validity.
Once the mutual trust is established, device uses its Client Certificate to setup a session symmetric key.

.. _online-ca:

Online Device CA: ``online-ca``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An X.509 certificate used as a CA issuing certificates to devices registered via the FoundriesFactory API.
Foundries.io owns the private key (NIST P-256 by default), and you sign the certificate by the Factory Root of Trust.

> When using the "shared" Factory PKI, this is the only CA used to issue Client Certificates to your Factory devices.

Author: It is both default and shared...
Shared better emphasizes on its essense, as it is exactly the same set of cetificates for all factories.

> Once you take ownership of your Factory PKI, you may opt out of using the Online Device CA.

Reviewer 2: Maybe `opt out of using the Online Device CA in favor of Local Device CA`?

Author: I disagree. That would make a sentence excessively longer providing marginally more value.

.. _local-ca:

Local Device CA: ``local-ca``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An X.509 certificate used as a CA issuing certificates to devices registered via your offline registration process.
You own the private key (NIST P-256 by default), and share the corresponding certificate with Foundries.io.

> It must be signed by the Root of Trust, so that Foundries.io may verify if a user is entitled to upload a Device CA.

Author: Not sure if we need to fix it. I prefer to skip.

> Your factory may only be configured to have one or more Local Device CAs after you took ownership of your Factory PKI.

Author: It implies the described ability is not available before the user took ownership of their Factory PKI.
I will move that word to _only after_ to remove ambiguity.

> Your factory may only be configured to have one or more Local Device CAs after you took ownership of your Factory PKI.

Author: Added one more sentence to express ability to have zero.

.. code-block::

    fioctl keys ca rotate-tls /absolute/path/to/certs/

Adding Device CA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sometimes, you might need to add more than one Device CA to your Factory.
Some use cases when this is needed include (but are not limited to) the following situations:

 * You have only initially set up an Online Device CA for your Factory,
   and want to also configure a Local Device CA (or vice versa).

 * You opened a new manufacturing site,
   and want a dedicated Local Device CA to issue Client Certificates to devices manufactured at this site.

 * One of your Device CAs was compromised,
   and you need to replace it by a new Device CA (either Online or Local).

:ref:`ref-fioctl` includes a command to add one more Device CA to your Factory:

.. code-block::

    fioctl keys ca add-device-ca /absolute/path/to/certs/ [--online-ca | --local-ca]

Revoking Device CA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You may need to revoke or disable a Device CA for your Factory.
Some use cases when this is needed include the following situations:

 * One of your Device CAs was compromised,
   and you need to deny an ability to register new devices with client certificates issued by this CA.

>    You may also want to completely deny access to the device gateway for already registered devices with such certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You may also want to completely deny access to the Device Gateway for already registered devices with such certificates.
```

Author: Fixed

  already registered devices with client certificates issued by that CA cannot connect to your Factory.

Use the below command when you need to disable a Device CA:

.. code-block::

    fioctl keys ca disable-device-ca /absolute/path/to/certs/ [--ca-file <filename> | --ca-serial <serial>]

Use the following command when you need to revoke a Device CA:

.. code-block::

    fioctl keys ca revoke-device-ca /absolute/path/to/certs/ [--ca-file <filename> | --ca-serial <serial>]

After the Device CA is revoked, devices can no longer update their apps or config.
Therefore, the revocation process needs to be planned properly.
We recommend the following workflow:

1. Disable the Device CA.
   This action needs to be taken as soon as you notice that your Device CA was compromised.
   This makes sure that an attacker is not able to register new devices with client certificates issued by that CA.

2. Inspect your fleet of already registered devices, and delete those devices which you think are not legitimate.
   After this point, you can be sure that an attacker can no longer steal your new Intellectual Property (provided by OTA updates).

>    FoundriesFactory advices you to also prepare a separate plan how to deal with already compromised devices.

Author: I prefer to keep as is to avoid fancy markup inside a list.
